# Entry 2: Software and Hardware in Biology 
Farzona Khabibova 
##### 11/5/24

## Content
Since blog 1, we have been required to investigate our subject. I had to do research on the various hardware and software technologies they offer because my major was biology. I needed to locate technlogies that weren't well-known.We started by investigating biology's software technologies, which were basically apps and anything that was on the computer. I discovered a lot of apps, including the **"Microbiology App"**, **"ixplain GCSE Biology"** app. and **“ 3D Biology + App”**  I had to learn more about these programs and their functions. 

### Software 
I headed to Google and just searched for "biology apps/software" in order to locate the "ixplain GCSE Biology," "microbiology,"  and “3D Biology + App” apps. I had a lot of websites to pick from, so I browsed through them to see what they had to offer before making a decision. [This was the website](https://www.saintleo.edu/about/stories/blog/download-these-7-best-biology-apps-students) that truly grabbed my interest, so I clicked on it. Since this was a school website, I knew I could trust it. Students had made the website, which was located on the school's website. As I browsed the website, I saw that it included a list of apps from which I could conduct research and gave descriptions on what the app does. The **"ixplain GCSE Biology app"** was the first software I chose since it teaches biology in an entertaining way that keeps you interested. Since it is organized unit by unit, you can begin with no prior knowledge and yet learn the essentials. I chose this app because learning on paper may occasionally be really boring, and listening to lectures and discussions can occasionally make you feel tired. The **"Microbiology App"** was the second software I chose since it teaches people unit by unit (there are 26 units) and includes 58 study lessons, 26 quizzes, and 439 practice problems. Infections of the different body systems, microbial proliferation, disease and epidemiology, acellular pathogens, and contemporary uses of microbial genetics are also covered. If you're interested in expanding your understanding of biology, this app is a great resource. You could learn and be ready for the test if you have a quiz or exam on a particular subject. The third app, **"3D Biology + App,"** also teaches you about biology, but it teaches you in a different way. It's like you have the things you are learning about in front of you because they are well developed and you could understand more of them. Even if you are outside and have no wifi, you could still use the app to learn.

### Hardware 
Since there was no other way for us to do research, I followed the same procedure for hardware. I did a search for "some types of hardware in biology" on Google, and while it provided me with hardware technologies, I was unable to locate a website that I liked. I was just looking into hardware and came across microfluidics and fluoroscopy.  I searched up about fluoroscopy, and then finally found a [website]( https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/diagnostics/21992-fluoroscopy).It thought about what a fluoroscopy was. It considered the definition of a fluoroscopy. According to the website, fluoroscopy is a medical imaging technique that shows inside organs and tissues moving in real time on a computer screen by using several pulses, or brief bursts, of an X-ray beam. Fluoroscopy is like a video, while standard X-rays are like pictures. I also discovered that fluoroscopy allows you to see the reproductive, musculoskeletal, digestive, urinary, and cardiovascular systems.Since many people have heard of x-rays and may think of Fluoroscopy in that way, I'm assuming that many are unaware of this type of technology because it is different from a x-ray. Microfluidics was the second piece of hardware I discovered. I looked up "what are microfluidics" online and then clicked on a site that gave me all the information I needed. I learned about microfluidics and its uses through [the website](https://www.elveflow.com/microfluidic-reviews/general-microfluidics/a-general-overview-of-microfluidics/) The science of studying how fluids behave in microchannels and the technology of creating tiny, miniature devices with chambers and tunnels that allow fluids to flow or be contained are both known as microfluidics. Fluid quantities as small as femtoliters (fL), or a quadrillionth of a liter, are the subject of microfluidics. The key to new discoveries and developments is the fact that fluids behave substantially differently on the micrometric scale than they do in ordinary life. According to the website, "microfluidic chips can be employed in cell analysis, diagnosis, and cell culture, as well as in the preparation of nanoparticles, drug capsules, delivery, and targeting." and "Manipulation and analysis of single cells." Microfluidics makes it possible to manipulate individual cells with extreme accuracy. 


## Engineering Design Process
Since we haven't received a lot of information yet, I would assume that we are still in the early stages of our EDP. After deciding on a topic, all we did was try to identify hardware and software related to it. Since biology is my specialty, I was looking for the various pieces of hardware and software that are used in the field because we would need them for our project. We don't really have time to go over things quickly because our classes on this project are just on Mondays. Due to holidays and other kinds of breaks, we sometimes have Mondays off. Since this project is mostly about research and there are several components to the research for this topic, we are still conducting research and, in my opinion, will continue to do so for some time later on. 

## Skills 
I believe I have learnt a lot more things and developed a lot more talents since writing blog 1. We conducted a lot of research, and I got all of my material from Google, so I think the most crucial skill I gained was **how to use Google to conduct research**. This ability involves more than just searching on Google; I also visited other websites to determine their credibility and whether or not I could trust the information they provided. Now that I know how to do it, I could actually do some research. I've learned a lot more and gotten better at it. We had to locate everything we looked up, so I think that improving my **note-taking** skills was another skill I acquired from doing research for this project. W had to track down almost everything we found such as what we searched up and the links we went on to find the information we had found. I have been used to taking notes in this way after doing it several times. Note taking also allowed me to become more specific with my ideas. 

[Previous](entry01.md) | [Next](entry03.md)

[Home](../README.md)
